Skip to main content Chrome Web Store

My extensions & themes
Appearance
Developer Dashboard
Give feedback

Sign in

Discover Extensions Themes

Sider: Chat with all AI: GPT-5, Claude, DeepSeek, Gemini, Grok

The publisher has a good record with no history of violations. Learn more.

Vidline Inc.

Follows recommended practices for Chrome extensions. Learn more.

Featured
4.9 ( 114.2K ratings
)
Ratings are updated daily and may not reflect the most recent reviews.

Share

Extension Tools 5,000,000 users
Add to Chrome

Overview

ChatGPT, DeepSeek, Gemini, Claude, Grok all in one AI sidebar, for AI search, read, and write.
ChatGPT, DeepSeek, Gemini, Claude, Grok all in one AI sidebar, for AI search, read, and write.
🟢 Why did we create Sider? 🟢

We're on the cusp of an AI revolution, and let's be real—those who harness its power will have a serious edge. But as the tech world races ahead, we can't afford to leave anyone behind. We get it; not everyone is a tech whiz. So how can we make AI services accessible for all? That was the burning question for us at Team Sider.

Our answer? Blend artificial intelligence and generative AI into the tools and workflows you're already comfortable with. With the Sider AI Chrome extension, you can effortlessly integrate ChatGPT and other copilot AI functionalities right into your daily tasks—be it searching the web, emailing, improving writing or translating text. We believe this is the easiest on-ramp to the AI highway, and we're committed to ensuring that everyone has the opportunity to ride along.

🟢 Who are we? 🟢

We're Team Sider, a Boston-based startup with a global flair. Our crew is spread out across the world, working remotely to bring you innovative solutions right from the heart of the tech scene.

🟢 Why Use Sider When You've Got a ChatGPT Account? 🟢

Think of Sider as the wingman to your ChatGPT account. Far from being a rival, Sider enhances your Chat GPT experience in some pretty awesome ways. Here's the lowdown: 1️⃣ Side by Side: With Sider's ChatGPT Sidebar, you can pull up Chat GPT on any tab without having to toggle between tabs. It's multitasking made easy.

2️⃣ AI Playground: We support all the big names. More choices, more insights.

3️⃣ Group Chat: Imagine having multiple AIs in one chat. You can bounce questions off different AIs and compare their answers in real-time.

4️⃣ Context is King: Whether you're reading an article, responding to a tweet, or doing a search, Sider works as an in-context AI assistant using Chat GPT.

5️⃣ Fresh Intel: While ChatGPT's data caps in 2023, Sider hooks you up with the latest info on the topic at hand, all without leaving your workflow.

6️⃣ Prompt Management: Save and manage all your prompts and deploy them anywhere on the web with ease.

🟢 Why Choose Sider as Your Go-To ChatGPT Extension? 🟢

1️⃣ One-Stop Shop: Forget juggling multiple extensions. Sider's got it all in one sleek package, as a unified AI assistant.

2️⃣ User-Friendly: Despite being an all-in-one solution, Sider keeps things simple and intuitive.

3️⃣ Always Evolving: We're in the game for the long haul, continually upgrading features and performance.

4️⃣ Sky-High Ratings: Boasting an average 4.92 rating, we're the cream of the crop among ChatGPT Chrome extensions.

5️⃣ Millions of Fans: Trusted by over 6 million active users every week, across both Chrome and Edge browsers.

6️⃣ Platform Agnostic: Whether you're on Edge, Safari, iOS, Android, MacOS, or Windows, we've got you covered.

🟢What Sets Sider Sidebar Apart? Here Are the Key Features: 🟢

1️⃣ Chat AI Capabilities in the ChatGPT Side Panel:

✅ Free Multi chatbot Support: Chat with all models in one place.
✅ AI Group Chat: Pit @ChatGPT, @Gemini, @Claude, @Llama, and others against the same question in one chatbot, then compare their answers on the fly.
✅ Advanced Data Analysis: Process and analyze data. Create docs, excels, and mind maps in real-time chat.
✅ Artifacts: Ask AI to create documents, websites, and diagrams within chat. Edit & export them on the fly, just like an AI agent.
✅ Prompt Library: Create and save custom prompts for reuse, anytime you need them. Just hit "/" to pull up your saved prompts in a jiffy.
✅ Real-Time Web Access: Get the latest info, right when you need it.

2️⃣ Chat with Files:

✅ Chat with images: Use Sider vision to convert picture to text. Turn chatbot into an image generator.
✅ Chat with PDF: Use ChatPDF to make your PDFs, documents, and presentations interactive. You can also translate PDF or OCR PDF.
✅ Chat with web pages: Chat directly with one webpage or multiple tabs.
✅ Chat with audio files: Upload MP3, WAV, M4A, or MPGA file to generate transcripts and create quick summaries.

3️⃣ Reading Assistance:

✅ Quick Lookup: Use the context menu to quickly explain or translate words.
✅ Article Summary Generator: Get the gist of articles in a snap.
✅ Video Summarizer: Summarize YouTube video with highlights, no need to watch the whole thing. Watch YouTube with bilingual subtitles for better comprehension.
✅ AI Video Shortener: Condense hours-long YouTube videos into several minutes. Easily transform your long videos to YouTube Shorts.
✅ Webpage Summary: Summarize entire web pages effortlessly.
✅ ChatPDF: Summarize PDF and quickly grasp the essence of long PDFs.
✅ Prompt Library: Leverage saved prompts for deeper insights.

4️⃣ Writing Assistance:

✅ Contextual Help: Get real-time writing assistance in every input box—Twitter, Facebook, LinkedIn, you name it.
✅ AI Writer for Essay: Create high-quality content of any length or format shortly, based on AI agent.
✅ Rewording Tool: Paraphrase your wording to improve clarity, avoid plagiarism, and more. ChatGPT writer is here for you.
✅ Outline Composer: Streamline your writing process with instant outlines.
✅ Sentence Sculpting: Easily expand or condense sentences with AI writing, like a scholar around.
✅ Tone Twister: Switch up your writing tone on the fly.

5️⃣ Translate Assistance:

✅ Language Translator: Convert selected text into 50+ languages with various AI model comparisons.
✅ PDF Translation Tool: Render the whole PDF into new languages while retaining the original layout.
✅ Image Translator: Adapt images with translation and editing options for precise results.
✅ Full Webpage Translate: Access bilingual views of entire webpages seamlessly.
✅ Quick Translation Aid: Instantly translate selected texts directly from any webpage.
✅ Video Translate: Watch YouTube videos with bilingual subtitles.

6️⃣ Website Enhancements:

✅ Search Engine Boost: Amp up Google, Bing, Baidu, Yandex, and DuckDuckGo with concise answers from ChatGPT.
✅ Gmail AI Writing Assistant: Elevate your email game with improved language capabilities.
✅ Community Expertise: Stand out on Quora and StackOverflow by answering questions with AI-assisted insights.
✅ YouTube Summaries: Summarize YouTube and get the skinny on videos without the watch time.
✅ AI Audio: Read AI responses or website contents for hands-free browsing or language learning like having an AI tutor.

7️⃣ AI Artistry:

✅ Text-to-Image: Convert your words into visuals. Quickly create stunning AI image, and turn your image into dreamy styles like Ghibli.
✅ Background Remover: Nix the background from any image.
✅ Text Remover: Extract text from your pictures.
✅ Background Swapper: Change up the backdrop in a flash.
✅ Brushed Area Remover: Erase selected objects with seamless blending.
✅ Inpainting: Reimagine specific areas within your image.
✅ Upscale: Enhance resolution and clarity with AI precision.

8️⃣ Sider Widgets:

✅ AI Writer: Draft articles or respond to messages with AI-backed suggestions.
✅ OCR Online: Extract text from images effortlessly.
✅ Grammar Checker: Beyond just spellcheck, improve your text for clarity. Just like an AI tutor around.
✅ Translation Tweaker: Customize tone, style, language complexity, and length for the perfect translation.
✅ Deep Search: Access and analyze multiple web sources to deliver refined, accurate insights.
✅ Ask AI Anything: Demand any answer, anytime. Summon any chatbot as your personal translator, grammar checker, or any AI tutor.
✅ Tool Box: Command instant access to every feature Sider offers.

9️⃣ Other Cool Features:

✅ Cross-Platform: Sider's not just for Chrome. We've got apps for iOS, Android, Windows, and Mac, plus extensions for Edge and Safari. One account, access everywhere.
✅ BYO API Key: Got an OpenAI API Key? Plug it into Sider and run on your own tokens.
✅ ChatGPT Plus Perks: If you're a ChatGPT Plus user, you can also tap into your existing plugins via Sider. Access top picked GPTs like Scholar GPT in your sidebar.

Why juggle multiple tools when you can have a Swiss Army knife? Sider integrates the power of generative AI right into your existing workflow, making your browser a productive AI browser. No compromises, just smarter interactions.

🚀🚀Sider isn't just a ChatGPT extension; it's your personal AI assistant, your bridge to the AI era, with no one left behind. So, are you in? Click 'Add to Chrome' and let's shape the future together. 🚀🚀

📪If you have any questions or feedback, please feel free to contact us at care@sider.ai . We will always be here to help you along the way.

We've updated the privacy policy to ensure the privacy policy contains details about user data collection, handling, storage and sharing https: //sider.ai/policies/privacy.html

4.9 out of 5

114.2K ratings Learn more about results and reviews.

See all reviews

Details

Version
5.32.1

Updated
August 19, 2026

Flag concern

Size
37.65MiB

Languages
55 languages
Deutsch , English , English (United Kingdom) , English (United States) , Filipino , Indonesia , Kiswahili , Melayu , Nederlands , Tiếng Việt , Türkçe , català , dansk , eesti , español , español (Latinoamérica) , français , hrvatski , italiano , latviešu , lietuvių , magyar , norsk , polski , português (Brasil) , português (Portugal) , română , slovenčina , slovenščina , suomi , svenska , čeština , Ελληνικά , български , русский , српски , українська , ‫עברית‬‎ , ‫اردو‬‎ , ‫العربية‬‎ , ‫فارسی‬‎ , मराठी , हिन्दी , বাংলা , ગુજરાતી , தமிழ் , తెలుగు , ಕನ್ನಡ , മലയാളം , ไทย , አማርኛ , 中文（中国） , 中文（台灣） , 日本語 , 한국어

Developer
Vidline Inc.
335 Huntington Ave
APT 35
Boston, MA 02115
US
Website Email care@sider.ai
Phone +1 857-756-0822

Trader
This developer has identified itself as a trader per the definition from the European Union and committed to only offer products or services that comply with EU laws.

D-U-N-S
D-U-N-S (Data Universal Numbering System) is a globally recognized system developed by Dun & Bradstreet (D&B) that assigns a unique nine-digit identification number to businesses. Learn more

106977314

Privacy

Manage extensions and learn how they're being used in your organization

Try Chrome Enterprise Core

Sider: Chat with all AI: GPT-5, Claude, DeepSeek, Gemini, Grok has disclosed the following information regarding the collection and usage of your data. More detailed information can be found in the developer's privacy policy .
Sider: Chat with all AI: GPT-5, Claude, DeepSeek, Gemini, Grok handles the following:
Personally identifiable information
Website content

See details

This developer declares that your data is
Not being sold to third parties, outside of the approved use cases
Not being used or transferred for purposes that are unrelated to the item's core functionality
Not being used or transferred to determine creditworthiness or for lending purposes

Support
Visit support hub

Related

TinaMind - The most powerful AI Assistant!
4.5
Average rating 4.5 out of 5 stars.
Learn more about results and reviews.

Your AI Assistant powered by AI models. Chat, YouTube summary, search, write, TTS, OCR and more.

AI Assistant for Chrome | SidebarGPT
4.9
Average rating 4.9 out of 5 stars.
Learn more about results and reviews.

Access AI language model everywhere with SidebarGPT chat assistant for Chrome. Enhance writing and communication skills with