Skip to main content

Home Courses SDKs Durable AI Code Exchange Temporal Cloud
Ask AI
Search

Home Quickstarts Evaluate
Why Temporal Understanding Temporal Features
Temporal Cloud
Security Use cases Develop
Temporal Cloud
Deploy to production
CLI (temporal)
Design Patterns
Durable AI
References
Troubleshooting
Best practices
Encyclopedia
Interactive Demos
Guides
Integrations Glossary Develop with AI

Evaluate Understanding Temporal On this page
For the complete documentation index, see /llms.txt . This page is also available as raw Markdown at /evaluate/understanding-temporal.md . Append .md to any page URL to fetch its Markdown.
Understanding Temporal
Copy for LLM View Markdown

Temporal offers an entirely new way to build scalable and reliable applications.

Build Invincible Apps ​

In any complex system, failures are bound to happen.
Software engineers spend a lot of time ensuring that what they build can withstand potential failures.
Temporal makes your code execution reliable and durable by default.

Normally, if a crash occurs then the state of your application's execution is lost.
The application has no memory of what happened before the failure, requiring extensive error handling logic and complex recovery code to resume.
The process is time-consuming and error-prone, making it difficult to ensure reliability.

Temporal tracks the progress of your application.
If something goes wrong, like a power outage, it guarantees that your application can pick up right where it left off — it’s like having the ultimate autosave.
Offloading the responsibility of failure management from the application to the platform removes the need for extensive recovery coding, testing, and maintenance tasks.

Durable Execution ​

Temporal is a Durable Execution Platform.
Durable Execution ensures that your application behaves correctly despite adverse conditions by guaranteeing that it will run to completion.
This shift simplifies the development process. If a failure or a crash happens, your business processes keep running seamlessly without interruptions.
Developers shift their focus to business logic rather than infrastructure concerns and create applications that are inherently scalable and maintainable.

Thousands of developers trust Temporal for use cases like order processing, customer onboarding, and payment handling because it enables them to build invincible applications that are resilient, durable, and just work .
With Temporal, your applications keep running, no matter what happens.

Temporal Application: The Building Blocks ​

Workflow ​

Conceptually, a Workflow is a sequence of steps.
You've likely encountered Workflows in your daily life, whether it's:

Using a mobile app to transfer money

Booking a vacation

Filing an expense report

Creating a new employee onboarding process

Deploying cloud infrastructure

Training an AI model

A Temporal Workflow is your business logic, defined in code, outlining each step in your process.

Temporal isn’t a no-code Workflow engine — it is Workflows-as-Code .
Instead of dragging and dropping steps in a visual interface, you write your Workflows in code in your favorite programming language, code editor, and other tools.
No-code engines eventually hit their limitations however, Temporal gives you full control and flexibility over your business processes.
This allows you to build exactly what you need.

Activities ​

Activities are the individual units of work in your Workflow.
Activities are defined as either functions or methods, depending on the programming language.
Activities often involve interacting with the outside world, such as sending emails, making network requests, writing to a database, or calling an API, which are prone to failure.
You can call Activities directly from your Workflow code.

If an Activity fails, Temporal automatically retries it based on your configuration.
Since Activities often rely on external systems, transient issues can occur.
These include temporary but critical problems like network failures, timeouts, or service outages.
You have full control over how often and how many times these retries should happen for each Activity.

If you need to orchestrate multiple Activities, use a Workflow . But if you just need to execute a single Activity, use a Standalone Activity .

A Standalone Activity is a top-level Activity Execution started directly by a Client , without using a Workflow.

SDK ​

Developers create Temporal applications by writing code, just like you would to create any other software.

A Temporal SDK (software development kit) is an open-source library that developers add to their application to use Temporal.
It provides everything needed to build Workflows, Activities, and various other Temporal features in a specific programming language.

Temporal offers seven SDKs: .NET, Go, Java, PHP, Python, Ruby, TypeScript.
Since Temporal supports multiple programming languages, you can mix-and-match between languages for polyglot teams.
You can easily add any Temporal SDK to your current projects without changing the tools you're already using to build and deploy.
Temporal fits right into your existing tech stack.

Temporal Service ​

Temporal has two main parts:

Your application

The Temporal Service (a set of services and components)

At the heart of Temporal architecture is the Temporal Service, which provides durability, scalability, and reliability for your application.
Your application communicates with the Temporal Service and the Temporal Service oversees the execution of critical tasks such as making an API call, then records their completion.
It maintains a detailed history of each event, which it reliably persists to a database.

One of the biggest advantages of the Temporal Service is how it handles failures.
The Temporal Service maintains a meticulous record of every step in your Workflows.
By keeping a history of every step in your Workflow, it ensures that even if something goes wrong your Workflow can continue from the last successful point.
The Temporal Service knows exactly where to resume without losing any work.
This saves you from having to write complex error handling code or painstaking recovery mechanisms yourself.

You can run the Temporal Service on your own infrastructure or use Temporal Cloud, a managed service that handles operational overhead and offers scalability and expert support.

Workers ​

The real strength of Temporal comes from the combination of your application and the Temporal Service.
Whenever your application needs to perform a task, like sending a notification or processing a payment, the Temporal Service orchestrates what needs to be done.
Workers, which are part of your application and provided by the Temporal SDK, then carry out the tasks defined in your Workflow.

The Worker polls the Temporal Service to see if there are tasks available and the Temporal Service matches the task with the Worker.
The Worker runs the Workflow code based on the details specified in the task.

Deploy to an Activity Worker once, and invoke standalone or from within a Workflow.

This collaboration is crucial for building reliable, scalable, and durable applications.
You can run multiple Workers — often dozens, hundreds, or even thousands — to improve application performance and scalability.

A common misconception is that the Temporal Service runs your code.
In fact, the Worker runs your code and works with your data directly.
Temporal applications are secure by design.
Workflows and Activities are seamlessly deployed within your infrastructure, fully integrated into your application.
Your data is also protected with your encryption libraries and keys.
You maintain full control over the security of your application from end to end.

Visibility ​

There are two tools provided by Temporal that allow you to see behind the scenes and interact with your Workflows.
These are powerful for debugging uses and provide real-time monitoring of your applications.

Temporal UI ​

The Temporal UI is a browser-based user interface that allows you to see the progress of your application.
Also known as the Web UI, it can also help you to quickly isolate, debug, and resolve production problems.

Recent Workflows page

Temporal CLI ​

The Temporal CLI is a command-line interface tool for managing, monitoring, and debugging Temporal Applications.
Through your terminal, you can:

Start a Workflow

Trace the progress of a Workflow

Cancel or terminate a Workflow

And perform other operations

The Temporal CLI provides developers with direct access to a Temporal Service for local development purposes.

Event History ​

With Temporal, your Workflows can seamlessly recover from crashes. This is made possible by the Event History , a complete and durable log of everything that has happened in the lifecycle of a Workflow Execution, as well as the ability of the Temporal Service to durably persist the Events during Replay .

Temporal uses the Event History to record every step taken along the way. Each time your Workflow Definition makes an API call to execute an Activity or start a Timer for instance, it doesn’t perform the action directly. Instead, it sends a Command to the Temporal Service.

A Command is a requested action issued by a Worker to the Temporal Service after a Workflow Task Execution completes. The Temporal Service will act on these Commands such as scheduling an Activity or scheduling a timer. These Commands are then mapped to Events which are persisted in case of failure. For example, if the Worker crashes, the Worker uses the Event History to replay the code and recreate the state of the Workflow Execution to what it was immediately before the crash. It then resumes progress from the point of failure as if the failure never occurred.

For a deep dive into the Event History or Commands, visit the Temporal Encyclopedia page or enroll in one of our courses .

Reliable as Gravity ​

Temporal provides effortless durability, allowing applications to run for days, weeks, or even years without interruption even if the underlying infrastructure fails.
This is what we call Durable Execution . Temporal also represents a paradigm shift in software development.
It's not just about making existing patterns more reliable; it's about enabling entirely new approaches to building complex, distributed systems.

Temporal simplifies state management and developers don't have to write tons of extra code to handle every possible thing that could go wrong.
With built-in scalability, Temporal ensures that your application runs smoothly, no matter its size or complexity.

tip
Follow one of our tutorials to Get Started learning how to use a Temporal SDK.
Or, jump straight into an Introduction to Temporal 101 course. Looking for more? Explore Temporal's Resource Library .

Tags: temporal evaluate temporal

Help us make Temporal better. View this page on GitHub.

Previous
Why Temporal
Next
Features

Build Invincible Apps Durable Execution Temporal Application: The Building Blocks Workflow Activities SDK Temporal Service Workers Visibility Temporal UI Temporal CLI Event History Reliable as Gravity

Resources
Glossary Learn Temporal Code Exchange Blog YouTube Support forum Ask an expert
Company
Temporal Cloud GitHub Trust Center Security Changelog
For agents
Develop with AI llms.txt

Copyright © 2026 Temporal Technologies Inc.