LIBRARY API GUIDES BLOG PRICING

ADD TO BROWSER

# 1
AI AGENT FOR WEB BROWSING
APP DASHBOARD ADD TO BROWSER ADD TO BROWSER
Summarize YouTube videos, blogs, PDFs in seconds, answer emails, proofread, generate articles, extract data and automate your work with contextual & practical AI.

4.7 Trusted by 500.000 professionals
EVERY AI IN ONE APP
Press Alt + A to access GPT-5.4, Claude 4.6, DeepSeek, Gemini 3.1, Llama 4, Perplexity on any web page.

BEST-IN-CLASS PRIVACY IN AI
HARPA supports local models like Meta Llama, does not log your conversations and actions, is GDPR compliant, and can be paired with any LLM model of your choice.

HARPA has a hybrid Browser Automation/AI engine and is compatible with OpenAI GPT, Anthropic Claude, Google Gemini, DeepSeek, Perplexity and Meta Llama.

YOUTUBE SUMMARIZER
Save time on YouTube. Extract key takeaways from hours-long videos, seek information and jump to timestamps, talk to videos.

ANSWER ENGINE
Get hallucination-free AI responses alongside Google Search along with source citations. HARPA scans websites, compiling informed answers and follow-ups.
GMAIL ASSISTANT
Zero your inbox in no time: categorize incoming emails with AI, summarize long threads, and draft contextual replies in your tone of voice.
WRITER THAT MIMICS YOUR STYLE
HARPA mimics your writing style while crafting emails, tweet replies, LinkedIn cover letters, and SEO-optimised articles of unlimited length.

EMAIL
DM
TWEET
SOCIAL POST
ARTICLE
STORY
CV
COVER LETTER
POEM
TODO LIST
MEETING AGENDA
TRACK PAGE UPDATES
Set up a web page monitor and HARPA will periodically check websites for changes, and notify you whenever they update.
READY-TO-USE PROMPTS
Access over 100 carefully crafted practical page-aware automations to refine your LinkedIn resume, practice a language, generate SMM content, fix code and more.

MARKETING & SEO
CHARTING
E-COMMERCE
COPYWRITING
LEARNING
RECRUITING
PRODUCTIVITY
WRITE ARTICLES
Generate 25.000+ word articles in 25 writing frameworks, from outline to chapters, refining or adding keywords at each step.
QUICK SHORTCUTS
HARPA is always at hand with // shortcut. Press F to finish a draft, G to check grammar, P to rephrase, T to translate, S to search, E to explain and much more.
BOOST YOUR SEO
Perform AI-driven SEO audit, extract long-tail keywords, segment your audience, create content calendars, compile keyword reports, outrank articles.
TRACK PRICE DROPS
Get price drop and back-in-stock alerts for products on virtually every e-commerce website: Amazon, AliExpress, Walmart, Ebay…
APIFY ANY WEBSITE
Scrape data, automate web search and monitoring and trigger IFTTT chains with Make.com, Zapier, n8n. Extract prospects, listings and data from any website.
USE AGENTS IN BROWSER
Bring your custom GPTs to your Browser. Create an AI agent for your team, giving it access to page content, search and automation functions.

MIDJOURNEY WIZARD
Effortlessly generate highly detailed Midjourney, DALL-E, Leonardo AI prompts in various styles. HARPA comes with over 30+ professional templates and presets.

/imagine prompt: A stunning AI cyborg girl stands tall amidst a bustling cityscape, her metallic skin reflecting the warm glow of the setting sun… Camera: Canon EOS R5. Lens: Canon RF 50mm f/1.2L USM. Settings: Shutter speed 1/250, Aperture f/4, ISO 400. —ar 16:9 LANGUAGE WIZARD
The most practical language learning AI assistant. HARPA corrects mistakes, explains grammar, and builds learning plan for any proficiency level and language.

DIALOGUE
GRAMMAR CHECK
LEARNING PLAN
EXPLAIN GRAMMAR
FIND RESOURCES
TEST
AUTOMATE YOUR WORK
Build AI-powered web automations that can navigate websites, extract data, click buttons and fill forms. Control your browser remotely from Zapier, Make.com, n8n.

USE CASES
No matter what you do, HARPA is there to help you work smarter, not harder. Productivity
Get information instantly with AI on Google Search, summarize web pages, rewrite text, extract data.
Marketing & SEO
Segment your audience, research SEO keywords, create marketing strategies, generate blog outlines and articles.
Learning
Fill in tests and pass exams, explain any concept, learn foreign language, create quizes and study plans.
Copywriting
Generate any type of text content, from Twitter tweets to YouTube video scripts and Amazon descriptions.
HR & Recruiting
Improve your resume, write LinkedIn replies, generate Upwork cover letters and Fiverr Gigs.
Product Development
Write and inspect code, get answers to Stackoverflow questions with AI. Rewrite code between languages and stacks.

PRIVACY BY DESIGN
HARPA AI runs locally, does not store your data, and is trusted by 500.000+ professionals and teams of all sizes, with an average review score of 4.7

WORKS EVERYWHERE
HARPA comes with prebuild GPT prompts and Automations for your favorite web services.

APP DASHBOARD ADD TO BROWSER ADD TO BROWSER

F.A.Q.

What is HARPA AI?
HARPA AI is a browser extension, powered by hybrid AI-engine that combines ChatGPT, Gemini, ClaudeAI, Perplexity, DeepSeek with Web Automation. Read the Get Started Guide to find out more.

What is it used for?
HARPA automates your copywriting, email management, web search, online data extraction and web monitoring tasks.
It is used to quickly write and reply to emails, post comments and DMs, summarise and “talk to” web pages, YouTube videos, PDF documents, extract and research SEO keywords, create SMM content plans and Midjourney prompts, automate form filling, write blog articles, review CVs, job offers and legal documents, plan trips, track competitors, prices and SERP pages, create learning plans, search for information and more.

What makes HARPA different?
HARPA can read, understand and act upon web page content.
It can navigate, click and extract data from web pages, run it through Large Language Models, paste back to websites or trigger IFTTT chains such as Zapier and Integromat.
Ultimate copilot and AI Agent for your web browsing, search and automation tasks. It provides access to AI on any website, and you can use HARPA with almost every web service or online app.

Is HARPA free?
HARPA has a basic free tier and a demo period for it's premium features. You can try the app before making an informed purchase.
Basic S plan starts with $12 per month paid annually, includes CloudGPT connection, cloud command storage, chat history and more .

Is HARPA CPU-intensive?
HARPA is optimized for speed and performance and does not use CPU when it has no tasks to run. You can also limit the number of automations that are run simultaneously in the HARPA app settings.

What HARPA stands for?
HARPA stands for High Availability Robotic Process Automation. HARPA is designed to bridge the gap between AI and Automation and serve as your virtual assistant and a digital workforce for your business.

Do I need to have an OpenAI account?
Generative AI features require connection to AI service providers. You can use HARPA with ChatGPT account, OpenAI API key, ClaudeAI, Google Gemini, OpenRouter and API keys.
You can also connect to our CloudGPT on S plan.

How to create ChatGPT account?
Step 1: Navigate to the ChatGPT login page . Click Sign Up button. ChatGPT offers three options for new user registration:
With email address.
With your Google account. Click the Continue with Google account option, and enter your Google account password to complete the process.
With your Microsoft account. Click the Continue with Microsoft account button, enter your password, and complete the sign-up process.
Choose the appropriate option and create the account. ChatGPT will send a verification email to the registered email address.
Step 2: Open your email account and verify your email address by clicking the Verify Email Address button and enter your full name.
Step 3: Enter your phone number. ChatGPT will send a verification code to your phone number. Verify it by typing the code in the space provided. Finally, your ChatGPT account is ready to use!

How to get access to GPT-5.4?
HARPA CloudGPT supports GPT-5.4 model. Please upgrade to S plan to get access to GPT-5.4.
Alternatively, GPT-5.4 comes with ChatGPT Plus. It is limited by OpenAI's per-session rate limits. GPT-5.4 is also available for OpenAI API accounts.
To upgrade to ChatGPT Plus:
Log in to your OpenAI account.
Click "Upgrade to Plus" in the left menu.
Select the ChatGPT Plus upgrade plan.
Enter your bank details and set up a recurring payment of $20/month.
Click "Continue to ChatGPT Plus."
To create OpenAI account and generate a key, navigate to openai.com

How to switch the GPT version and model?
Locate GPT connection button below the Chat window. You might need to expand the control panel by clicking the "triangle" button. Select a GPT connection and model in the screen that appears.
Alternatively, type -3 in chat and press Enter to switch model to an efficient model, -4 to switch to a premium model, -c to switch to Claude, etc.

How does HARPA ensure privacy and data security?
HARPA is privacy-centered. It runs on your computer, does not send or store website data on remote servers, only performs the tasks you have asked it to. We do not show ads or sell your data.
GPT prompts you enter to HARPA are transparently sent to OpenAI, Google or ClaudeAI servers for processing and not stored on our servers.
Privacy Policy

Why HARPA does not open on a web page?
HARPA does not work with Google Sheets yet. Some domains e.g. Discord may require you to disable fingerprint protection on Brave and Edge. Click HARPA icon in the browser toolbar, instead of pressing Alt+A. If the HARPA popup does not appear:
Right click HARPA icon in the browser toolbar. Make sure "This Can Read and Change Site Data" option is set to "On all sites".
uBlock may prevent HARPA from loading on some websites. Try turning it off for the web page.
If you are on Chrome : Navigate to chrome://settings/content/popups
Add your domain to Allow list.

If you are on Brave : Navigate to brave://settings/shields
Either deactivate “Prevent sites from fingerprinting me based on my language preferences” option, or deactivate Brave Shields for your domain, e.g. Discord.

If you are on Edge : Navigate to edge://settings/content/ads
Either deactivate "Intrusive Ads" block or add your domain to Allow list.

If nothing helps, navigate to chrome://extensions, disable HARPA, quit and restart your browser, and turn HARPA back in.

Why do I get CRX_FILE_NOT_READABLE error?
This error may occur if:
You downloaded a CRX file and installing it manually. CRX files downloaded online may be broken or insecure. We recommend installing HARPA from the official Chrome Web Store.
You are using NordVPN with the "THREAT PROTECT" is ON. Turn it OFF while installing HARPA extension.

Why HARPA chats are not showing up in ChatGPT?
You can see 🧬  chats in chatgpt.com if you're on a Browser Session connection. If you don’t want your dialogues to be cleared automatically whenever a tab is closed, you can change this in the App Settings.

Why HARPA says there is no video transcript?
If a YouTube video is fresh or has a low number of views, it may not have a transcript available. If you are using uBlock Origin, turn it off while running HARPA or add a rule to allow XHR requests on YouTube.

Can HARPA generate blog outlines and articles?
Yes, HARPA has an extensive library of copywriting prompts, can generate and refine short and long articles in 18 writing styles and can mimic yours.

How to turn off the bar that pops up when I select text?
Please click the settings (”gear”) button in the app and uncheck the box next to “Show floating quick-access bar”.

Which API connection is better than Browser Session?
HARPA S plan comes with CloudGPT, which is the most reliable, fastest and non country restricted GPT connection. You can also use CloudGPT or OpenAI keys with HARPA with an additional setup.
There are Pros and Cons to using OpenAI API keys over Browser Session:
Browser Session connection is free, Browser Session Plus is $20 / month and OpenAI API Key connection is paid per use based on the number of tokens (request volume).
GPT-5.4 access is unlimited on OpenAI API key connection. Browser Session Plus has per-session rate limits.
The OpenAI API key connection is reliable, never disconnects or logs you out.

What search engine supported?
HARPA provides AI search assistance for Google, Google Scholar, Baidu, Bing, DuckDuckGo, Brave, Yahoo, Naver, Yandex, Kagi, Searx.

Can I reuse one AI dialogue across multiple browser tabs?
Yes, this feature is available on HARPA S plan. Please note the dialogue content is not stored on our servers and is not synched between your devices.

What is a Prompt and AI Command?
A prompt is a message (instruction) your send to Large Language Model (LLM) such as OpenAI GPT-5. AI Command is an automation recipe which may or may not include steps that prompt LLMs.
Think of AI Commands as a sequence of steps, e.g. “Navigate to web page”, “Click Messages button”, “Extract messages”, “Run through GPT to find important messages”, “Send as Email”.
HARPA comes with over 100+ preconfigured commands and you can create yourself to automate your workflow.

What are Prompt Parameters?
HARPA makes it possible to customise your prompts with predefined parameters, such as:
{{page}} to reference page content.
{{transcript}} to extract YouTube video transcript.
{{selection}} to get text selected on page.
{{gpt}} to reference the last GPT answer and chain your requests.
You can also create custom parameters in your commands to store data or options. Custom parameters are usually named {{p1}} , {{p2}} … You can also set up global parameters such as {{g.tone}} and reuse them in your prompts e.g. to write customised emails.

How chunking works?
Large Language Models have a limited token window, e.g. 8192 tokens on ChatGPT 3.5. It is often impractical or impossible to fit large documents, web pages, and video transcripts into a single GPT request.
Chunking is 