Documentation Index
Fetch the complete documentation index at: /llms.txt
Use this file to discover all available pages before exploring further.
Skip to main content
Model Context Protocol home page Draft

Search...

⌘ K Ask Assistant
Blog
GitHub

Search...

Navigation
Authorization
Authorization

Documentation
Specification
Extensions
Registry
SEPs
Community

Specification

Changelog

Deprecated Features

Architecture

Base Protocol

Overview

Versioning and Compatibility

Message Patterns

Transports

Authorization

Overview

Authorization Server Discovery

Client Registration

Security Considerations

Client Features

Roots

Sampling

Elicitation

Server Features

Overview

Discovery

Prompts

Resources

Tools

Utilities

Schema Reference

On this page
Introduction Purpose and Scope
Protocol Requirements
Standards Compliance

Roles
Overview
Authorization Server Discovery
Client Registration
Scope Selection Strategy
Authorization Flow Steps Authorization Response Validation

Resource Parameter Implementation Canonical Server URI

Access Token Usage Token Requirements
Token Handling

Refresh Tokens
Error Handling Scope Challenge Handling
Runtime Insufficient Scope Errors
Step-Up Authorization Flow

Security Considerations
MCP Authorization Extensions

Authorization
Authorization
Copy page Copy page

Copy page Copy page

​

Introduction

​

Purpose and Scope

The Model Context Protocol provides authorization capabilities at the transport level,
enabling MCP clients to make requests to restricted MCP servers on behalf of resource
owners. This specification defines the authorization flow for HTTP-based transports.
​

Protocol Requirements

Authorization is OPTIONAL for MCP implementations. When supported:

Implementations using an HTTP-based transport SHOULD conform to this specification.

Implementations using an STDIO transport SHOULD NOT follow this specification, and
instead retrieve credentials from the environment.

Implementations using alternative transports MUST follow established security best
practices for their protocol.

​

Standards Compliance

This authorization mechanism is based on established specifications listed below, but
implements a selected subset of their features to ensure security and interoperability
while maintaining simplicity:

OAuth 2.1 IETF DRAFT ( draft-ietf-oauth-v2-1-13 )

OAuth 2.0 Bearer Token Usage
( RFC6750 )

OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata
( RFC8414 )

OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration Protocol
( RFC7591 )

Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0
( RFC8707 )

OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource Metadata ( RFC9728 )

OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Issuer Identification ( RFC9207 )

OAuth Client ID Metadata Documents ( draft-ietf-oauth-client-id-metadata-document-00 )

OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0

OpenID Connect Dynamic Client Registration 1.0 ( OpenID Connect Registration )

​

Roles

A protected MCP server acts as an OAuth 2.1 resource server ,
capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens.
An MCP client acts as an OAuth 2.1 client ,
making protected resource requests on behalf of a resource owner.
The authorization server is responsible for interacting with the user (if necessary) and issuing access tokens for use at the MCP server.
The implementation details of the authorization server are beyond the scope of this specification. It may be hosted with the
resource server or a separate entity. Authorization Server Discovery
specifies how an MCP server indicates the location of its corresponding authorization server to a client.
​

Overview

Authorization servers MUST implement OAuth 2.1 with appropriate security
measures for both confidential and public clients.

Authorization servers and MCP clients SHOULD support OAuth Client ID Metadata Documents
( draft-ietf-oauth-client-id-metadata-document-00 ).

Authorization servers and MCP clients MAY support the OAuth 2.0 Dynamic Client Registration
Protocol ( RFC7591 ). Note that
Dynamic Client Registration
is deprecated and retained for backwards compatibility with authorization servers that do not support Client ID Metadata Documents.

MCP servers MUST implement OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource Metadata ( RFC9728 ).
MCP clients MUST use OAuth 2.0 Protected Resource Metadata for authorization server discovery .

MCP authorization servers MUST provide at least one of the following discovery mechanisms:

OAuth 2.0 Authorization Server Metadata ( RFC8414 )

OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0

MCP clients MUST support both discovery mechanisms to obtain the information required to interact with the authorization server.

​

Authorization Server Discovery

MCP servers advertise their associated authorization servers through OAuth 2.0 Protected
Resource Metadata, and MCP clients determine authorization server endpoints and supported
capabilities through authorization server metadata discovery. Implementations MUST
follow the normative discovery requirements defined in
Authorization Server Discovery .
​

Client Registration

Before initiating the authorization flow, MCP clients MUST obtain a client ID through
one of three registration mechanisms: Client ID Metadata Documents, pre-registration, or
Dynamic Client Registration, following the requirements and selection priority defined in
Client Registration .
​

Scope Selection Strategy

MCP servers SHOULD include a scope parameter in the WWW-Authenticate header as defined in
RFC 6750 Section 3
to indicate the scopes required for accessing the resource. This provides clients with immediate
guidance on the appropriate scopes to request during authorization,
following the principle of least privilege and preventing clients from requesting excessive permissions.
The scopes included in the WWW-Authenticate challenge MAY match scopes_supported , be a subset
or superset of it, or an alternative collection that is neither a strict subset nor
superset. Clients MUST NOT assume any particular set relationship between the challenged
scope set and scopes_supported . Clients MUST treat the scopes provided in the
challenge as authoritative for the current operation. These scopes are required to
satisfy the current request. When re-authorizing, clients SHOULD include these scopes
alongside any previously granted scopes to avoid losing permissions needed for other operations
(see Step-Up Authorization Flow ). Servers SHOULD strive for
consistency in how they construct scope sets but they are not required to surface every dynamically
issued scope through scopes_supported .
Example 401 response with scope guidance:

HTTP / 1.1 401 Unauthorized
WWW-Authenticate : Bearer resource_metadata="https://mcp.example.com/.well-known/oauth-protected-resource",
scope="files:read"

When implementing authorization flows, MCP clients SHOULD follow the principle of least privilege by requesting
only the scopes necessary for their intended operations. During the initial authorization handshake, MCP clients
SHOULD follow this priority order for scope selection:

Use scope parameter from the initial WWW-Authenticate header in the 401 response, if provided

If scope is not available , use all scopes defined in scopes_supported from the Protected Resource Metadata document, omitting the scope parameter if scopes_supported is undefined.

The scopes_supported field is intended to represent the minimal set of scopes necessary
for basic functionality (see Scope Minimization ),
with additional scopes requested incrementally through the step-up authorization flow steps
described in the Scope Challenge Handling section.
​

Authorization Flow Steps

The registration step shown in the flow uses one of the mechanisms defined in
Client Registration .
The complete Authorization flow proceeds as follows:

​

Authorization Response Validation

Before redirecting the user-agent, the client MUST record the issuer value from the selected authorization server’s validated metadata document (see Authorization Server Metadata Discovery ) and associate it with the same per-request record used to store the PKCE code verifier (and the state value, if used). The validation in this section depends on that recorded value being authentic; it provides no protection if the expected issuer was obtained from an unvalidated source.
MCP authorization servers SHOULD include the iss parameter in authorization responses, including error responses, as defined in RFC9207 Section 2 . Authorization servers that include the iss parameter MUST advertise this by setting authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported to true in their metadata ( RFC9207 Section 2.3 ).
On receiving the authorization response, MCP clients MUST apply the validation in RFC9207 Section 2.4 before transmitting the authorization code to any token endpoint:
authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported iss in response Client action
true present Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ( RFC3986 Section 6.2.1 )
true absent Reject the response
false or absent present Compare to the recorded issuer using simple string comparison ( RFC3986 Section 6.2.1 )
false or absent absent Proceed

The third row applies the local-policy provision in RFC9207 Section 2.4 : this specification compares a present iss against the recorded issuer regardless of metadata advertisement, to accommodate authorization servers that emit iss before updating their metadata.
A future revision of this specification is expected to upgrade authorization server inclusion of iss from SHOULD to MUST . Implementers are encouraged to emit and validate iss now to ease that transition; client rejection behavior on iss absence will continue to be keyed on authorization_response_iss_parameter_supported until that revision defines the upgrade path.
After decoding the iss value from the application/x-www-form-urlencoded response per RFC 9207 Section 2.4 , clients MUST NOT apply scheme or host case folding, default-port elision, trailing-slash, or percent-encoding normalization ( RFC 3986 Sections 6.2.2-6.2.3 ) before comparison.
This validation applies equally to error responses - on mismatch the client MUST NOT act on or display error , error_description , or error_uri .
​

Resource Parameter Implementation

MCP clients MUST implement Resource Indicators for OAuth 2.0 as defined in RFC 8707
to explicitly specify the target resource for which the token is being requested. The resource parameter:

MUST be included in both authorization requests and token requests.

MUST identify the MCP server that the client intends to use the token with.

MUST use the canonical URI of the MCP server as defined in RFC 8707 Section 2 .

​

Canonical Server URI

For the purposes of this specification, the canonical URI of an MCP server is defined as the resource identifier as specified in
RFC 8707 Section 2 and aligns with the resource parameter in
RFC 9728 .
MCP clients SHOULD provide the most specific URI that they can for the MCP server they intend to access, following the guidance in RFC 8707 . While the canonical form uses lowercase scheme and host components, implementations SHOULD accept uppercase scheme and host components for robustness and interoperability.
Examples of valid canonical URIs:

https://mcp.example.com/mcp

https://mcp.example.com

https://mcp.example.com:8443

https://mcp.example.com/server/mcp (when path component is necessary to identify individual MCP server)

Examples of invalid canonical URIs:

mcp.example.com (missing scheme)

https://mcp.example.com#fragment (contains fragment)

Note: While both https://mcp.example.com/ (with trailing slash) and https://mcp.example.com (without trailing slash) are technically valid absolute URIs according to RFC 3986 , implementations SHOULD consistently use the form without the trailing slash for better interoperability unless the trailing slash is semantically significant for the specific resource.

For example, if accessing an MCP server at https://mcp.example.com , the authorization request would include:

&resource=https%3A%2F%2Fmcp.example.com

MCP clients MUST send this parameter regardless of whether authorization servers support it.
​

Access Token Usage

​

Token Requirements

Access token handling when making requests to MCP servers MUST conform to the requirements defined in
OAuth 2.1 Section 5 “Resource Requests” .
Specifically:

MCP client MUST use the Authorization request header field defined in
OAuth 2.1 Section 5.1.1 :

Authorization: Bearer <access-token>

Note that authorization MUST be included in every HTTP request from client to server.

Access tokens MUST NOT be included in the URI query string

Example request:

GET /mcp HTTP / 1.1
Host : mcp.example.com
Authorization : Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIs...

​

Token Handling

MCP servers, acting in their role as an OAuth 2.1 resource server, MUST validate access tokens as described in
OAuth 2.1 Section 5.2 .
MCP servers MUST validate that access tokens were issued specifically for them as the intended audience,
according to RFC 8707 Section 2 .
If validation fails, servers MUST respond according to
OAuth 2.1 Section 5.3
error handling requirements. Invalid or expired tokens MUST receive a HTTP 401
response.
MCP clients MUST NOT send tokens to the MCP server other than ones issued by the MCP server’s authorization server.
MCP servers MUST only accept tokens that are valid for use with their
own resources.
MCP servers MUST NOT accept or transit any other tokens.
​

Refresh Tokens

This section provides guidance for MCP Clients and MCP Servers when handling or issuing
refresh tokens for both OAuth and OpenID Connect.
MCP Clients that desire refresh tokens:

MUST keep refresh tokens confidential in transit and storage as specified in OAuth 2.1 Section 4.3

SHOULD include refresh_token in their grant_types client metadata

MAY add offline_access to the scope parameter of the authorization and token requests when the Authorization Server metadata contains it in scopes_supported

MUST NOT assume refre